# DevConnect

DevConnect is a social media platform bringing together software developers to network, learn, teach, and problem solve.
This single page application was built with the MERN (MongoDB, Express.js, React, Node.js) stack.
Redux is featured to handle application level state management.

### Try it out

You can join the community by registering an account and creating a profile for yourself.
You can add your current status, company, location, and other information to make yourself stand out.
If you have a GitHub account, you can include your username and your last five repositories will be displayed in your profile.
Add your education/work history to your profile to show your merit as a developer.
Feel free to include any non-tradition educational programs (bootcamps, etc.) and any type of work experiences (freelancing, contracting, etc.) you may have.

View the profiles of other community developers to find out more information about them, afterall, you may have something in common.
You can view a member's current status, social media pages, and a short bio to learn more about their personal life.
Their skills, work and education history are shown to highlight their expertise.
Their latest five GitHub repositories (if they have one and shared their username) will be display on their profile so you can checkout their recent projects.

Join the discussion by creating a post of your own or adding a comment on another member's post.
Show which posts you found helpful, informational, or interesting by leaving a like on the post.

### Build on it

If interested, feel free to take the code for this application and build on it yourself.
Make some small tweeks, change the layout or color scheme, build additional features, whatever you would like to do.

#### What you will need to get started

Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed
- Code editor (I suggest [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/))
- MongoDB (I suggest [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas), there is a free tier option for small databases)
  - Though you can also install and use [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com/what-is-mongodb) locally
- (Optional) If you want GitHub functionality, you will need to [add the application as an Oauth app](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/) to your GitHub account
- (Optional) If you plan on adding more API routes, an HTTP client may be helpful to test requests. I suggest [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/)

Quick start

1. Clone the repository
2. In the root of the project run **`npm install`**
3. Once that is finished, go into the "**client**" folder and run **`npm install`**
4. Go back to the root of the project and create a file called **`.env`**, this file will store your local environment variables for connecting to MongoDB and other secret variables you don't want public

   Your **`.env`** might look something like this:

   ```
   MONGO_URI=<your MongoDB connection string>
   JWT_SECRET=<your value>
   GITHUB_CLIENT_ID=<your GitHub Client ID>
   GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET=<your GitHub Client Secret>
   ```

   > This application uses [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) for authentication to private/ API routes.
   > A secret value (`JWT_SECRET`) is used to sign and validate a user's token for access to private API routes.
   > The GitHub Client ID and GitHub Client Secret will be generated by GitHub when adding the application as an Oauth app.
   > Then, just add those two values in their designated spots if you are intending to use GitHub functionality.
   > If you are not going to include GitHub, some alterations to the code may be necessary.

   _Note: These values can also be set directly in_ **`config/keys.js`**

5. Ensure **`.env`** is included in your **`.gitignore`**
6. Now you should be all setup to start working.
   - Use **`npm start`** to start only the server, you will need to restart the server after every change
   - Use **`npm run server`** to start the server with nodemon, which will automatically restart the server after making changes
   - Use **`npm run client`** to start only the frontend React development server, changes will be updated automatically but there will not be a connection to the API
   - Use **`npm run dev`** to start both the React development server and the backend server (with nodemon), where both servers will restart automatically after changes

#### Deploying the app

If you would like to take the project and deploy it out into the real world, you can use [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com) to deploy the app.

1. Create a Heroku account.
2. Install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli), this will allow you to deploy the app from the command line via Git.
3. In your terminal, run **`heroku login`** and follow the prompts.
4. Use **`heroku create`** to generate the project for you. This will generate an app name for your project. This will also create a remote for you to push your changes to and automatically build the app.
5. Commit any changes you have to Git, if you haven't done so already. Then use the command **`git push heroku master`**. This will build and deploy the app for you.
6. Then, you can open the link provided in the deploy process to view and use your app.

If you are like me and sometimes find yourself on a new machine but still want to deploy updates to the app, follow these steps.

1. Install the [Heroku CLI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli), if not done already.
2. In your terminal, run **`heroku login`** and follow the prompts.
3. Commit/push any changes you may have, if not done so already.
4. Set a heroku remote for your project with the command, **`heroku git:remote -a <project name>`**.
5. Then, trigger the build and deploy with your changes using the command, **`git push heroku master`**.
6. Open the link provided in the deploy process to view and use your app.
